The frosh Orientation
What I expected in this orientation is not really a bonding type of program, rather just a discussion about DLS-CSB and some rules 

and regulations, but, I found out I was wrong when the orientators started separating us by section. and I was so excited what will happened next although I'm about to enter to a whole new level and I'm about to meet more  frosh students and I want to meet/know more frosh from different courses, but, during the day as I expected, I learned a lot of things 

about DLS-CSB and how the people, who had been part of the CSB family already, will interact with you and how friendly they are; Our 

orientators, who were the one in charge of us, also toured us around the school to prevent us from being lost on the first day. the people around me is so good and polite. I thought everything would just be the same as 

before that I will be the laziest among the class, but I was encouraged to speak up so I did.everything seemed to feel rushed that in a blink of an eye, the day already ended. I regreted a bit that I 

didn't get to actively talk much to others only a few, but, I knew now that in the first day, I should be more open and be more active in 

getting to know my blockmates for the first term. Because before I am the man who don't want to speak to others but now things must be changed amd things must be improved between my attitudes.

the frosh Solidarity night

the frosh solidarity night for me is good and quite boring on my side because I don't have friends that night. I expected to meet or make new friends but I'am to shy and not a socialized person when it comes to communication and with big society. the venue of the Frosh Solidarity Night is quite nice for us to celebrate with the frosh like me and to the seniors. I learned that being in the benildean society is good for me and unique as my side because more oh my cousins is in the DLSU and Ateneo. even though im in the benildean society it doesn't mean the I will give up or regret that im in. I had been challenge to study hard in order not to be in the bottom in our family. I saw the goodness of being in the benildean and the unique of my program, yes im unique but Iam the only one who's taking up the Game Design and Development course that's why I must do my Part not to failed my subjects.

              star Recital 2011(shadow Play)

1. What Benildean Core Values have you learned from the STAR Recital 2011 (Shadow Play, Intermediate Acting, Dance and Coro) performances ?
2. What scence/production did you like the most?
3. How does it affect you as a Benildean-Lasallian ?
4. Among the core values, what struck you the most based from the production that you watched?
5. Give a short reflection from the production that you have seen?
Answer:

Among the Benildean Core Values, I have learned more about the creativity, portrayed by the shadow play for creating shadows as 

they discuss or tell the story. Another is that of faith, portrayed by the family in the story of the shadow play.
The child had enough faith 

that her mother will return and the parents had enough faith towards God that they will eventually have a blessed and unique child, in 

which they were given, though it was one of God's angels. 
What I liked most is how the shadows told the story.
As a Benildean-

Lasallian, I am challenged to be more creative and improve on a certain ideas in which I can make a basis on how the shadow play did. 
Since I'm a 

Game Design and Development student, I can have the shadow play as basis for a certain game and make it more beautiful. the things, I learned a 

lot of the moral values presented in the story: The respect for the parents is seen there and The faith in God. The story presented 

can serve as a guide or a teaching value to every person in the audience. and it will help our own self to be a good christians and it will be followed by the childs in other to be respected and to have faith to God.

              Karilyo

1. What can you do to prevent what happened in the 2nd part of the story?
2. How does it affect you as part of the Lasallian community ?
3. Give at least 2 Benildean Core Values shown on the production
4. How can you share these values to others?
5. Give your own personal insights about the play
     Answer:
In the second part of the play, the people can prevent the environment being destroy by natural calamity, the animals and the people around you must do their part in other to Keep the earth balanced. 
As part of the La Sallian community, I am encouraged to be the farmer of mother earth, because in the story, what happened was that everything was destroyed. What God slowly and preciously created was destroyed, to prevent and stop pollution and a remedial to the damage that the people did today.
 Another insight is that one can see some Benildean Core Values like Social Responsibility, in which we should be responsible to everything around us not only to the people but to the non-living things surrounding us and Deeply Rooted in Faith, in which we should not always lose hope in problems like pollution and because such problems were given to us as a test from God, because, He want us to take care of His creations. He also want us to plant more plants to prevent the lacks of our food supply and all the needs of our body.
   National Service Training Program(NSTP)


1. What is the aim of NSTP?
 NSTP stands for National Service Training Program. It is embodied in Republic Act 9163 of the Philippines, known as the "National Service Training Program (NSTP) Act of 2001."

The purpose of NSTP is stated in Section 2 of RA 9163. It says that the law was passed to:

    promote civic consciousness among the youth
    develop the youth's physical, moral, spiritual, intellectual and social well-being
    inculcate in the youth patriotism and nationalism
    advance the youth's involvement in public and civic affairs. 

Section 2 of RA 9163 also states that "in pursuit of these goals, the youth, the most valuable resource of the nation, shall be motivated, trained, organized and mobilized in military training, literacy, civic welfare and other similar endeavors in the service of the nation."


2. What are the three (3) program components of NSTP? Differentiate the three.
THE 3 COMPONENTS OF NSTP...

1. ROTC (Reserve Officers Training Corps.)= which designed to provide military training to tertiary level students in order to motivate, train, organize and mobilize.

2. CWTS (Civic Welfare Training Service)= which consist of projects and activities designed to encourage the youth to contribute in the improvement of general welfare and the quality of life of the the local community and its various institutional components. more particularly in terms of health, education, safety, recreation and morale of the citizenry.


3. LTS (Literacy Training Service)= which is designed to teach literacy and numeracy skills to school children, Out-of-School youth and other segments of society need of their services.

3. What program component do you intend to enrol? Why?
I want to enroll in the ROTC because I want to be train and want to be Strong in order not to be wicked and will never encounter some physical problems and to be a healthy. I want to be good in Organizing and to be good in strategies.


4.What is the role of NSTP in nation-building?
is to improve in teamwork and unity, in which we can find a 

way to do something to help everbody not just one person.

5. How will NSTP help you become good Filipino citizen and good Benildean-Lasallian?

By participating in its activities that will build up support and teamwork, we can 

all team up to help other Filipinos and give service to them if needed, not just only Benildean-Lasallians

